docs/contrib/GettingInvolved.md, before:

# Getting Involved

Thank you for taking the time to read this document and to contribute,
the OpenROAD project will not reach all of its objectives without help!

Possible ways to contribute

- Open Source PDK information
- Open Source Designs
- Useful scripts
- Tool improvements
- New tools
- Improving documentation including this document
- Star our project and repos so we can see the number of people
    interested

## Licensing Contributions

As much as possible, all contributions should be licensed using the BSD3
license. You can propose another license if you must but contributions
made with BSD3 fit in the spirit of OpenROAD's permissively open source
philosophy. We do have exceptions in the project but over time we hope
that all contributions will be BSD3, or some other permissive license.

## Contributing Open Source PDK information and Designs

If you have new design or PDK information to contribute, please add this
to the repo
[OpenROAD-flow-scripts](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/).
In the
[flow directory](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow)
you will see a directory for
[designs](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow/designs)
with Makefiles to run them, and one for PDK
[platforms](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow/platforms)
used by the designs. If you add a new PDK platform be sure to add at
least one design that uses it.

## Contributing Scripts and Code

We follow the [Google C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
If you find code that is not following this guide, within each file that
you edit, follow the style in that file. Please pay careful attention to the
[tool checklist](DeveloperGuide.md#Tool Checklist) for all code. If you want
to add or improve functionality in OpenROAD please start with the top
level [app](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/) repo. You
can see in the `src` directory that submodules exist pointing to tested
versions of the other relevant repos in the project. Please look at the
tool workflow in the developer guide [document](DeveloperGuide.md)
to work with the app and its submodule repos in an efficient way.

Please pay attention to the
[test directory](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/tree/master/test)
and be sure to add tests for any code changes that you make with open
source PDK and design information. We provide the `nandgate45` PDK in
the OpenROAD-flow-scripts repo to help with this. Pull requests with
code changes are unlikely to be accepted without accompanying test
cases. There are many
[examples](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/test/gcd_nangate45.tcl)
tests. Each repo has a test directory as well with tests you should run
and add to if you modify something in one of the submodules.

For changes that claim to improve QoR or PPA, please run many tests and
ensure that the improvement is not design specific. There are designs in
the
[OpenROAD-flow-scripts](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/)
repo which can be used unless the improvement is technology specific.

Do not add runtime or build dependencies without serious thought. For a
project like OpenROAD with many application sub components, the software
architecture can quickly get out of control. Changes with lots of new
dependencies which are not necessary are less likely to be integrated.

If you want to add Tcl code to define a new tool command look at pdngen
as an example of how to do so. Take a look at the
[cmake file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/CMakeLists.txt)
which automatically sources the Tcl code and the
[Tcl file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/pdn/src/PdnGen.tcl)
itself.

To accept contributions we require each commit to be made with a DCO attached.
When you commit you add the `-s` flag to your commit. For example:

``` shell
git commit -s -m "test dco with -s"
```

This will append a statement to your commit comment promising the DCO. Github
has built in the `-s` option to its command line since use of this is so
pervasive. The promise is very basic, certifying that you know that you
have the right to commit the code. Please read it the [full statement
here](https://developercertificate.org/).

## Questions

Please refere to our [FAQs](../user/FAQS.md).

Commit message:

Add note about clang-format
Signed-off-by: Vitor Bandeira <vitor.vbandeira@gmail.com>

docs/contrib/GettingInvolved.md, after:

# Getting Involved

Thank you for taking the time to read this document and to contribute,
the OpenROAD project will not reach all of its objectives without help!

Possible ways to contribute

- Open Source PDK information
- Open Source Designs
- Useful scripts
- Tool improvements
- New tools
- Improving documentation including this document
- Star our project and repos so we can see the number of people
    interested

## Licensing Contributions

As much as possible, all contributions should be licensed using the BSD3
license. You can propose another license if you must but contributions
made with BSD3 fit in the spirit of OpenROAD's permissively open source
philosophy. We do have exceptions in the project but over time we hope
that all contributions will be BSD3, or some other permissive license.

## Contributing Open Source PDK information and Designs

If you have new design or PDK information to contribute, please add this
to the repo
[OpenROAD-flow-scripts](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/).
In the
[flow directory](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow)
you will see a directory for
[designs](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow/designs)
with Makefiles to run them, and one for PDK
[platforms](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/tree/master/flow/platforms)
used by the designs. If you add a new PDK platform be sure to add at
least one design that uses it.

## Contributing Scripts and Code

We follow the [Google C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
If you find code that is not following this guide, within each file that
you edit, follow the style in that file. Please pay careful attention to the
[tool checklist](DeveloperGuide.md#Tool Checklist) for all code. If you want
to add or improve functionality in OpenROAD please start with the top
level [app](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/) repo. You
can see in the `src` directory that submodules exist pointing to tested
versions of the other relevant repos in the project. Please look at the
tool workflow in the developer guide [document](DeveloperGuide.md)
to work with the app and its submodule repos in an efficient way.

Please run clang-format on all the C++ source files you change before
committing. On the root directory of the OpenROAD repository there is the
file `.clang-format` that defines all coding formatting rules.

Please pay attention to the
[test directory](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/tree/master/test)
and be sure to add tests for any code changes that you make with open
source PDK and design information. We provide the `nandgate45` PDK in
the OpenROAD-flow-scripts repo to help with this. Pull requests with
code changes are unlikely to be accepted without accompanying test
cases. There are many
[examples](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/test/gcd_nangate45.tcl)
tests. Each repo has a test directory as well with tests you should run
and add to if you modify something in one of the submodules.

For changes that claim to improve QoR or PPA, please run many tests and
ensure that the improvement is not design specific. There are designs in
the
[OpenROAD-flow-scripts](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD-flow-scripts/)
repo which can be used unless the improvement is technology specific.

Do not add runtime or build dependencies without serious thought. For a
project like OpenROAD with many application sub components, the software
architecture can quickly get out of control. Changes with lots of new
dependencies which are not necessary are less likely to be integrated.

If you want to add Tcl code to define a new tool command look at pdngen
as an example of how to do so. Take a look at the
[cmake file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/CMakeLists.txt)
which automatically sources the Tcl code and the
[Tcl file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/blob/master/src/pdn/src/PdnGen.tcl)
itself.

To accept contributions we require each commit to be made with a DCO attached.
When you commit you add the `-s` flag to your commit. For example:

``` shell
git commit -s -m "test dco with -s"
```

This will append a statement to your commit comment promising the DCO. Github
has built in the `-s` option to its command line since use of this is so
pervasive. The promise is very basic, certifying that you know that you
have the right to commit the code. Please read it the [full statement
here](https://developercertificate.org/).

## Questions

Please refere to our [FAQs](../user/FAQS.md).
